Add/docker concentrator (#882)
SEKOIA-IO/documentation: docs/xdr/features/collect/ingestion_methods/sekoiaio_docker_concentrator.md

# SEKOIA.IO Docker concentrator

## Overview

[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/overview/) is a tool that can be used to run packaged applications in an isolated environment on a host.
Packaged applications are stored in an object called an image, which includes an OS, the dependencies and the configuration. With that, the application will have the same behaviour whatever the OS used on the host as long as it's a x86-64 Linux host.

SEKOIA.IO offers a preconfigured concentrator based on Docker to forward events on the platform.

> This method simplfies as much as possible the configuration needed to set up a concentrator in order to collect logs and send them on the each relevant Intakes.

Reviewer: This method simplifies as much as possible the configuration needed to set up a concentrator in order to collect logs and send them on the each relevant Intakes.

!!! Warning

>     In this method each technology MUST send their logs on different ports (of your choice) of the concentrator in order to make it work. The main principale of this methode is to discriminate each technology by port to link them with the right Intake key.

Reviewer: In this method each technology MUST send their logs on different ports (of your choice) of the concentrator in order to make it work. The main principle of this method is to discriminate each technology by port to link them with the right Intake key.

      options:
        max-size: "1000m"
        max-file: "2"
    image: ghcr.io/sekoia-io/sekoiaio-docker-concentrator:0.9
    environment:
      - MEMORY_MESSAGES=100000
      - DISK_SPACE=32g
    ports:
      - "20516-20518:20516-20518"
    volumes:
      - ./intakes.yaml:/intakes.yaml
      - ./conf:/etc/rsyslog.d
      - ./disk_queue:/var/spool/rsyslog
    restart: always
    pull_policy: always
```

!!! Note
    Feel free to copy paste it and adapt it to your needs.

The following sections will describe each element of this file above.

#### Logging

```yaml
logging:
    options:
    max-size: "1000m"
    max-file: "2"
```

Docker logging system offers the flexibility to view events received on the container in real time with the command `docker logs <container_name>`. These logs are stored by default in `/var/lib/docker/containers/<container_uuid>/<container_uuid>-json.log`. To avoid the overload of disk space on your host, some options are specified. `max-size` specifies the maximum size of one file and `max-file` specifies the total number of files allowed. When the maximum number of files is reached, a log rotation is performed and the oldest file is deleted.

!!! Note

>     Docker logging system is an independent solution from SEKOIA.IO IO or the buffer you want to set up on your concentrator. It is only used to view the last events on your concentrator.

Reviewer: Docker logging system is an independent solution from SEKOIA.IO or the buffer you want to set up on your concentrator. It is only used to view the last events on your concentrator.

sudo docker compose logs -f
```

**To stop the concentrator:**

```bash
sudo docker compose stop
```

**To delete the concentrator (the concentrator needs to be stopped):**

```bash
sudo docker compose rm
```

## Troubleshooting

You can't find the logs in your community? No worries this section will give you an advice to identify what is happening.

### Step 1: check if the events are received by the concentrator

To check if the events are received by the concentrator, you can run the following command that will display all the last logs received:

```bash
sudo docker compose logs
```

If you are looking for specific logs, you can also run:

```bash
sudo docker compose logs | grep "YOUR_PATTERN"
```

Finally, if you want to check if events are coming in real time:

```bash
sudo docker compose logs -f
```

**You don't see your events with these commands?** 

1. Check the `intakes.yaml` file to see if you have declared the protocols and ports you wanted. 

2. Verify if this information is taken into account by the concentrator. At start-up, the concentrator always shows the list of Intakes with the protocols and ports.
    ```bash
    sudo docker compose logs | more
    ```

> 3. Check that you correctly declared the `ports` section in the `docker-compose.yml` file. They MUST be the sames as the ports declared in the `intakes.yaml` file. For instance, if you declared 4 technologies on ports `25020`, `25021`, `25022` and `25023`, the ports line the `docker-compose.yml` has to be `"25020-25023:25020-25023"`. 

Reviewer: 3. Check that you correctly declared the `ports` section in the `docker-compose.yml` file. They MUST be the same as the ports declared in the `intakes.yaml` file. For instance, if you declared 4 technologies on ports `25020`, `25021`, `25022` and `25023`, the ports line the `docker-compose.yml` has to be `"25020-25023:25020-25023"`.

    Escape character is '^]'.
    ```

    Remove `telnet` if don't need it anymore

    ```bash
    sudo apt remove telnet
    ```

3. Finally check the status of the SEKOIA.IO plateform on [https://status.sekoia.io](https://status.sekoia.io).

## Additional information

The image used to run the concentrator is maintained on [this github repository](https://github.com/SEKOIA-IO/sekoiaio-docker-concentrator). Feel free to contribute and make a pull request to improve the concentrator!

## How to update the concentrator
Docker uses the notion of tag to identify the version of an image. The tag is always referenced in line starting with `image` in `docker-compose.yml`:

```
image: ghcr.io/sekoia-io/sekoiaio-docker-concentrator:0.9
```

`0.9` means the version used by `docker compose` is 0.9. You can find all the versions available on the GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/SEKOIA-IO/sekoiaio-docker-concentrator/pkgs/container/sekoiaio-docker-concentrator/versions?filters%5Bversion_type%5D=tagged)

To update the concentrator, just change the tag in `docker-compose.yml`, then recreate the concentrator with the command:
```bash
sudo docker compose up -d
```

> There is a special tag called `latest` which always refers to the latest version. If you use this tag, every time the concentrator will be recreated, the image will be updated with the latest version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a special tag called `latest` which always refers to the latest version. If you use this tag, every time the concentrator will be re-created and the image will be updated to the latest version.

```

Author: I don't agree with you on this one. I mean "Every time the concentrator is recreated => This image is updated"

!!! Important
    Be very careful if you use the tag `latest` in production! If a major change is present in a new version, it could break your current concentrator with the settings in place.

!!! Important
    Each image version is also updated every week in order to update the OS contained in the image with the latest security patches. You are responsible for recreating the concentrator periodically to initiate the image update.

## How do I add a new Intake later ?
To add a new Intake, it's very simple ! Follow these steps:

1. Edit the `intakes.yaml` file and add the new intake
    ```yaml
    - name: NewIntake
      protocol: tcp
      port: 20519
      intake_key: INTAKE_KEY_FOR_NEW_INTAKE
    ```
2. Edit the `docker-compose.yml` file and modify the `ports` section accordlingly to the `intakes.yaml` file
    ```yaml
    ports:
    - "20516-20519:20516-20519"
    ```
3. Recreate the concentrator by running the command:
    ```bash
    sudo docker compose up -d
    ```
4. Check in the concentrator logs that the new Intake is taken into account
    ```bash
    sudo docker compose logs | more
    ```

## 5 minutes setup on Debian

!!! Warning

>     This script will automate all the steps detailed on this page **for a Debian host**. Please carefully read the content of this page prior to execute it.

Reviewer: This script will automate all the steps detailed on this page **for a Debian host**. Please read carefully the content of this page prior to execute it.
